Add docs for limits/requests, affinity, reword PDB (#393)
kubewarden/docs: docs/howtos/policy-servers/03-production-deployments.md

---
sidebar_label: Production deployments
title: Configuring PolicyServers for production
description: Configuring PolicyServers for production
keywords:
  [
    kubewarden,
    kubernetes,
    policyservers,
    production,
    poddisruptionbudget,
    affinity,
    limits,
  ]
doc-persona: [kubewarden-operator, kubewarden-integrator]
doc-type: [howto]
doc-topic:
  [
    operator-manual,
    policy-servers,
    production,
    poddisruptionbudget,
    affinity,
    limits,
  ]
---

> PolicyServers are critical to the cluster. Reliability of them is important as

Reviewer: We should have some guidelines about how to spell certain pieces of our tech stack. Do we have to use `PolicyServer` or `Policy Server`?

It would be even better to have some keywords that automatically expand to the right term. For example, `&policyServer` gets expanded to be `PolicyServer` at rendering time. I don't know if docusaurus has something for that

CC @jhkrug

Reviewer 2: I think we have agreed on PolicyServer, where talking about the component in general. As per the Kubernetes docs style guide. And yes, I can do something about variables in DS. I had to do it for Longhorn. It would be something like

`[[< policy-server-component >]] expands to `PolicyServer`, etc.

Author: Opened https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/issues/394 to not forget about it.

> they process Admission Requests destined for the Kube API via the Validating and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they process Admission Requests destined for the Kubernetes API via the Validating and
```

Mutating Webhooks.

As with other Dynamic Admission Controllers, this process happens before

> requests reach the Kube API server. Latency or service delays by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requests reach the Kubernetes API server. Latency or service delays by
```

:::note
You can specify only one of `maxUnavailable` and `minAvailable`.
:::

## Configuring minAvailable or maxUnavailable

Examples:

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: your-policy-server
spec:
  # Other configuration fields
  minAvailable: 2 # ensure at least two policy-server Pods are available at all times
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: your-policy-server
spec:
  # Other configuration fields
  maxUnavailable: "30%" # ensure no more than 30% of policy-server Pods are unavailable at all times
```

# Affinity / Anti-affinity

The Kubewarden controller can set the affinity of policy-server Pods. This
allows constraint of Pods to specific nodes, or Pods against other Pods. For
more information on Affinity, see the [Kubernetes
docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity).

Kubernetes affinity configuration allows constraining Pods to nodes (via
`spec.affinity.nodeAffinity`) or constraining Pods with regards to other Pods
(via `spec.affinity.podAffinity`). Affinity can be set as a soft constraint

> (with `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`) or a hard one (wit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(with `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`) or a hard one (with
```

> `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`). Via labels.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the 'Via labels' at the end is necessary, and I think if it is, does it need to be with the next paragraph?

Affinity / anti-affinity matches against specific labels, be it nodes' labels

> (e.g: `topology.kubernetes.io/zone` set to `antartica-east1`) or Pods labels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(e.g: `topology.kubernetes.io/zone` set to `antarctica-east1`) or Pods labels.
```

---
sidebar_label: Production deployments
title: Configuring PolicyServers for production
description: Configuring PolicyServers for production
keywords:
  [
    kubewarden,
    kubernetes,
    policyservers,
    production,
    poddisruptionbudget,
    affinity,
    limits,
  ]
doc-persona: [kubewarden-operator, kubewarden-integrator]
doc-type: [howto]
doc-topic:
  [
    operator-manual,
    policy-servers,
    production,
    poddisruptionbudget,
    affinity,
    limits,
  ]
---

> PolicyServers are critical to the cluster. Reliability of them is paramount as
> they process Admission Requests destined to the Kube API via the Validating and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PolicyServers are critical to the cluster. Reliability of them is important as
they process Admission Requests destined for the Kube API via the Validating and
```

Mutating Webhooks.

> As in other Dynamic Admission Controllers, this process happens prior to the
> requests reaching the Kube API server. Hence, latency or service hiccups from
> the Dynamic Admission Controller may introduce to the cluster inconsistency,
> Denial Of Service, or deadlock.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As with other Dynamic Admission Controllers, this process happens before
requests reach the Kube API server. Latency or service delays by
the Dynamic Admission Controller may introduce cluster inconsistency,
Denial of Service, or deadlock.
```

> Kubewarden provides several ways to increase the realibility of PolicyServers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubewarden provides several ways to increase the reliability of PolicyServers.
```

> Production deployments can vary a great deal, it is up to the operator to adapt
> and configure the deployment for their needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Production deployments can vary a great deal, it is up to the operator to configure the deployment for their needs.
```

# PodDistruptionBudgets

The Kubewarden controller can create a
[PodDisruptionBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/)
(PDB) for the policy-server Pods. This controls the range of policy-server

> Pod replicas associated with the PolicyServer, thus ensuring high availability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pod replicas associated with the PolicyServer, ensuring high availability
```

and controlled eviction in case of node maintenance, scaling operations or
cluster upgrades.

This is achieved by setting `spec.minAvailable`, or `spec.maxUnavailable` of the

> PolicyServer resource (only one of them):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PolicyServer resource:
```

  that must be available at all times. Can be an integer or a percentage.

  Useful for maintaining the operational integrity of the PolicyServer,
  ensuring that policies are continously enforced without interruption.

- `maxUnavailable`: specifies the maximum number of policy-server Pods that can
  be unavailable at any given time. Can be an integer or a percentage.

  Useful for performing rolling updates or partial maintenance without fully
  halting the policy enforcement mechanism.

:::note
You can specify only one of `maxUnavailable` and `minAvailable`.
:::

## Configuring minAvailable or maxUnavailable

Examples:

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: your-policy-server
spec:
  # Other configuration fields
  minAvailable: 2 # ensure at least two policy-server Pods are available at all times
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: your-policy-server
spec:
  # Other configuration fields
  maxUnavailable: "30%" # ensure no more than 30% of policy-server Pods are unavailable at all times
```

# Affinity / Anti-affinity

> The Kubewarden controller can set the affinity of policy-server Pods. This
> allows to constraint Pods to specific nodes, or Pods against other Pods. For

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden controller can set the affinity of policy-server Pods. This
allows constraint of Pods to specific nodes, or Pods against other Pods. For
```

      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: kubewarden/policy-server
                operator: In
                values:
                  - your-policy-server
          topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
        - labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: kubewarden/policy-server
                operator: In
                values:
                  - your-policy-server
          topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
```

Example: Only schedule PolicyServer pods in control-plane nodes

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: your-policy-server
spec:
  # Other configuration fields
  affinity:
    podAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
              - key: kubewarden/policy-server
                operator: In
                values:
                  - your-policy-server
          topologyKey: node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane
```

# Limits and Requests

The Kubewarden controller can set the resource limits and requests of

> policy-server Pods. This specifies how much of each resource eac of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
policy-server Pods. This specifies how much of each resource each of the
```

containers associated with the policy-server Pods needs. For PolicyServers,
only `cpu` and `memory` resources are relevant. See the [Kubernetes
docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-units-in-kubernetes)

> on resource units for more info.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on resource units for more information.
```

This is achieved by setting the following PolicyServer resource fields:

- `spec.limits`: Limits on resources, enforced by the container runtime.
  Different runtimes can have different ways to implement the restrictions.

> - `spec.requests`: Amount of resources to reserve for each container. It is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `spec.requests`: Amount of resource to reserve for each container. It is
```

Author: I'm not applying this one, as `spec.requests` can set the amount of several resources (cpu, memory..).
